---
layout: posts
title: A few thoughts of being a professional developer
categories: []
tags: []
published: True

---

##The Art of Coding

I have always been an artistic person, in fact, I love art, I am an avid critic and simply am amazed at the talent necessary to create phenomenal art. However in as much as my mind loves admiring and even creating art, my body is not an artist's vessel.  I have spent my childhood trying to learn an instrument, trying to draw, paint, sculpt, sing, create to no avail.  I simply do not have the genes which are needed to express what is going on in my mind, at least in any way which would be acceptable to society that is.  I have the mind of an artist, the heart of an artist, but I do not have the manual dexterity, the touch, the ear, nor the voice of an artist.  In other words, the genes which were passed down from my parents created an artist with no physical ability to express himself.  So where does coding fit into this?  Well, two years ago I finally found a way to express my artistic ability without the need for the physical necessities to express it.  Code has given me the means to express my art.  It turns out, I am surprisingly good at it as well.  I am not saying I am a savant, or even gifted in the art of coding, but what coding has become to me, is an ability to create through logical reasoning.  I have always played around with the idea of coding, and have even made a few web pages in the nineties, but due to the way certain events played out in my life, it sort of steered me in the wrong direction, well away from this idea of coding.  Even though I was very involved with computers in my childhood, by the time I was eighteen and joined the marine Corps, my decisions in life kept me on a path well away from anything even remotely computer related.  In fact, I only came back to coding through a perfect chance encounter with an old friend who wanted a web page.  I had built a few pages in the late ninety's and early two thousands, thus I offered up my services to him, with no idea how much things have changed.  After searching for a copy of Microsoft's Frontpage, did I truly start realizing how different things had become.  Hence, the dawn of understanding current trends in web development was upon me.

##The Age of Knowledge

After realizing the world had dramatically changed in the last 15 years, it was time for me to become a part of it.  So I set out to find out how to build a website in this new age.  What I thought wouldn't be too difficult of a task has definitely been proven otherwise.  It wasn't too hard at all to get a CMS platform running, be it Wordpress, Drupal, or Joomla, and learning HTML and CSS wasn't too difficult at all, thus, getting a site up for my friend wasn't too much of a hassle.  What did happen afterward was unexpected.  I actually enjoyed what I was doing and I wanted more.  Web Development became the rabbit hole.  I had fallen in and was lost in a maze of knowledge.  This led to my first real programming endeavor, implementing Javascript on a few site pages.  Suddenly I was hooked.  I began thirsting for programming exercises, I couldn't stop at this point, this unexpected passion enveloped me as I further enhanced my knowledge which turned into skill and as things started becoming clear and my understanding of programming principles, languages, and abilities progressed I realized this is what I wanted to do for the rest of my life.

##Becoming a Professional Web Developer

For most of my life I had done things only to prove to others that I could do them, which of course led to many bad decisions on my part.  I joined the Marine Corps when I definitely shouldn't have, which gave me a skill I really didn't care for, and kept on a path even though it was not my path.  I was always talked into sticking with it because it paid the bills.  But you know what? those that would always talk me into staying, didn't have to do it for a living.  I was that guy doing a job he hated, always complaining, tomorrow was always my last day, I kept switching companies thinking I would be happier at this one or that one, but it wasn't the company, it was the profession.  It just didn't suit me.  I hated being an aircraft mechanic and I had tried leaving the profession many times, but it was hard to get a living wage doing anything else, or even getting hired in another field as all anyone ever saw was aircraft related skills.  Any other company whether it was being a stocker at Walmart or a Barista at Starbucks would never hire me because I guess they thought I wouldn't stay as I had a skill that paid well, they couldn't understand why I was applying for one of their positions with all this other experience in an unrelated field.  Thus, as hard as I tried, I could never escape this profession, no one would hire me, no one.  So I kept on.
